.TH "MFBpdf" 1 2.0 "26 Jan 2023" "User Manual"

.SH NAME
mfbpdf

.SH DESCRIPTION
MFBpdf is a simple project for easy converting PNM to (MASK+FG+BG)-pdf.
It uses libtiff[1] and libjpeg[2] for all technichal work and compression.
The breakdown of the image into components is done using DjVuL[3] and DjVuL wiki[4].

.SH SYNOPSIS
mfbpdf [options] input.pnm input|output.tif output.pdf

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
-a #
anisotropic regulator DjVuL {0.0}
.TP
-b #
BG and FG downsample {3}
.TP
-c #
contrast regulator DjVuL {0.0}
.TP
-d #
DPI pdf and tiff {300}
.TP
-f #
FG more downsample {2}
.TP
-l #
level DjVuL (0 - auto) {0}
.TP
-o #
overlay blocks DjVuL {0.5}
.TP
-q #
jpeg quality {75}
.TP
-r
rewrite tiff
.TP
-s #
sensitivity for sauvola and blur {0.2}
.TP
-t #
threshold: djvul, bimod, sauvola, blur {djvul}
.TP
-x #
linear regulator DjVuL {*1.0}
.TP
-y #
linear regulator DjVuL {+0.0}
.TP
-z
black mode

You can use Netpbm[5] or any other similar tool to obtain PNM from other format. You can use other threshold programs to create a tiff mask.

.SH EXAMPLE
 mfbpdf mona.ppm mona.tif mona.pdf

.SH NOTES
DjVuL description.

The base of the algorithm[3] was obtained in 2016 by studying the works monday2000[6] and adapting them to Linux.
The prerequisite was the BookScanLib[7] project  and the algorithm DjVu Thresholding Binarization[8].
This algorithm embodied good ideas, but had a recursive structure, was a "function with discontinuities" and had a hard color limit.
The result of this algorithm, due to the indicated shortcomings and the absence of regulators, was doubtful.
After careful study, all the foundations of the specified algorithm were rejected.
The new algorithm is based on levels instead of recursion, a smooth weight function is used instead of a "discontinuous" one, no color restriction, BG/FG selection controls are enabled.
The new algorithm allowed not only to obtain a much more adequate result, but also gave derivative functions: image division into BG/FG according to the existing mask.

.SH COPYRIGHT
This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.

.SH SEE ALSO
qpdf(1), pdftk(1), pdfcook(1), imthreshold(1), aithreshold(1), gm(1).

.SH CONTACTS
Website: https://github.com/ImageProcessing-ElectronicPublications/mfbpdf

.SH LINKS
 [1](https://github.com/vadz/libtiff)
 [2](https://github.com/LuaDist/libjpeg)
 [3](https://github.com/plzombie/depress/issues/2)
 [4](https://sourceforge.net/p/imthreshold/wiki/DjVuL/?version=3)
 [5](https://sourceforge.net/projects/netpbm/)
 [6](http://djvu-soft.narod.ru/)
 [7](http://djvu-soft.narod.ru/bookscanlib/)
 [8](http://djvu-soft.narod.ru/bookscanlib/034.htm)
 [pdfbeads](https://github.com/ifad/pdfbeads)
 [qpdf](https://github.com/qpdf/qpdf)
 [pdfcook](https://github.com/ksharindam/pdfcook)
 [tesseract](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract)
 [imthreshold](https://github.com/ImageProcessing-ElectronicPublications/imthreshold)
 [aithreshold](https://github.com/ImageProcessing-ElectronicPublications/aithreshold)
